## 8 table database created with invented data to ensure sound relationships among keys between the tables. This database models a veterinary clinic's patients and appointments. There is an expertise table for the vet's field, a veterinarian table for vet's names, a species table for the animal patients, a treatment table, an insurance table, a petowner table, a patient table for the pet's names, and an appointment table. These tables are all filled with records for different details pertaining to the table's subject. For example, some fields within the veterinarian table are VET_ID, VET_FNAME, VET_LNAME, and STATE_LICENSE, with the VET_ID being the primary key. For the insurance table, some of the fields are POLICY_NO, POLICY_HOLDER_FNAME, POLICY_HOLDER_LNAME, INSURANCE_CO, and DEDUCTIBLE_DOLLARS, with POLICY_NO being the primary key.

## I show an update query, an alter query, a query with a 'where' clause, a query with the 'like' operator, a query using ORDER BY, a query with an aggregate function, query with GROUP BY, GROUP BY/HAVING, and a calculated field. Also, I demonstrate a subquery with a SELECT statement to select records for all patients who recieve treatment ending in 'therapy' by using a LIKE clause within the SELECT subquery.##

## I created a view to show appointments that occurred after December 1, 2022. Another view shows the full name, state of license, and area of expertise for only verterinarians who earned their PhD from Auburn University. <br> 

## I created a stored procedure called 'InsertPetOwner' to add a new pet owner to the PETOWNER table whenever there is a new patient. <br>
## Another stored procedure I created was called 'UpdateVetInfo' to adjust the name of a vet, the state of his or her license, the school where they earned a PhD, years of experience, or area of expertise for any VET_ID. <br>
## The final stored procedure I created was called 'DeleteAppointment' to allow appointments meeting certain parameters to be deleted from the appointment table. 

## Since I created a stored procedure to delete appointments, I also created a trigger and a backup appointment table so that any deleted records fromthe appointment table got added to a backup table called APPOINTMENT_BACKUP.
